---
title: Insert title here
key: 8ea34aee42f724715fb4e127061371c3

---
## Global and local outliers

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "9bdbe2a84a"
```

`@lower_third`
name: Name Surname
title: Instructor


`@script`
In the past lessons we discovered that anomaly detection is about looking for outliers in data. We also defined an outlier as a point that is very distant from other points.


---
## Global Vs Local 

```yaml
type: "TwoColumns"
key: "754a939d57"
disable_transition: true
```

`@part1`
Global Outliers

- Very High

- Very Low

- WRT all other points


`@part2`
Local outliers

- in normal range

- far from local points


`@script`
Now we'll get a little bit deeper in the definition of outlier by describing the difference between the two most important types: global and local outliers. 
As we've seen in the last chapter global outliers are points that have a very high or a very low value when compared to all the other values in a dataset. 
Local outliers, on the contrary, are points that have values within the normal range for the whole dataset but that are unusually low or high when compared to the surrounding points.
This means that the same value may not be considered an outlier in case it occurred in a different context.


---
## Local outliers - one variable

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "bbe0124543"
```

`@part1`



`@script`
Look at this temperature dataset. Here data are ordered according by time: this point has a value that is between the maximum-minimum range of the whole dataset so in a boxplot it wouldn't be classified as an outlier.
But if we look at its close observations we find that in that day the temperature was extremely high. This is an example of a local outlier. 
Local outliers in one or two dimensions can be found by appropriate graphical visualization.


---
## Local outliers - two variables

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "791aaa951b"
```

`@part1`



`@script`
In this example we can see a bivariate plot of two continuous variables. The plot helps us to identify the anomalous point here. Such point can be identified by looking at the graph and extracted in order to be removed or investigated. 
Things get complicated when the dimensionality grows.


---
## More variables

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "6896c08c7b"
```

`@part1`



`@script`
Look at this example in which we have a five variables dataset. 
In this case identifying the anomalous statistical units by using plots can be extremely difficult and time consuming. We can go plotting all 2 ways cobminations of variables and look at the scatter matrix. As you can see inspecting all those plot it's a lot of work. Moreover the inspection of the 2 ways relations doesn't garantee to detect any kind of outliers. Multidimensional outliers could appear as normal even on all bivariate scatter plots. This is the reason why we need something that would inspect all local multidimensional densities for us which will be covered in the next chapter. But now let's make some practice about global and local outliers!


---
## Final Slide

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "93c1804ceb"
```

`@script`


